all right this is a new rocket stove
that I'm building I'm working on getting
it to use wood pellets
a lot of seasoned firewood this year so
to get it started you need to take a
paper towel roll it up real tight dip it
in just a little bit of diesel put on
the ash pan and slide it underneath the
fuel tray and then you just take
yourself a propane torch and that'll get
it going just put just enough pellets in
there you don't want to load it up too
much you'll see does it smokes a little
bit when you first start up and once the
pellets catch it'll clear up and a lot
of the diesel burned down you know the
smoke will really clear so take a step
back take a look at this thing it's just
made out of old air compressor tank and
I molded so homemade refractory clay out
of cat litter and vermiculite these PVC
pipe to form the chambers within it
you'll notice I've left some extra room
this is so I can build a heat exchanger
and use it to heat water for a hydronic
heating system take a look and see
what's going on in there see the diesels
still burning but you can see the wood
pellets are catching
I'm getting going real good
turn the camera back on so you can see
what it looks like so you can see the
diesel is pretty much quit burning and
it's the pellets that have taken over he
may be able to see some of the smoke for
me in there pretty fascinating to watch
there if you look up here you can see
most of smoke that's cleared up and you
got flames shooting out the top pick
that up against the shadow there
so if you wanted to set up something
like this just for cooking it wouldn't
take much more to get it ready
you just put a grill over the top of it
and be ready to go try to get a view
down in there
you see how high those flames are
shooting
still coming up to temperature
once it gets there that smoke will
completely clear up
things pretty hungry for pellets which
is good I need it produce a lot of BTUs
to eat a lot of water so I plan to eat
in my house as well as my water off of
this system I'll have a capacity or not
but we'll find out to figure that out
and I'm taking the number of BTUs per
pound of these wood pellets and finding
how long it takes to burn a pound and
that would give me a good way to gauge
theoretically depending on the
efficiency of my system how many BTUs I
can produce for heating thanks for
watching